---
title: 'Josep Egea - Technical skills'
kind: general_info
canonical_identifier: '/about/tech_bio'
language: en
---

# Josep and Software

I started tinkering with computers at age 15 and haven't stopped
since.

**Ruby** and **Rails** are my tools of choice at the moment, but there
have been many other before and I have no doubt that newer and shinier
toys will come in the future.

## Full stack web developer

Since mid 2015 I've been busy working in several web projects, both
startups and stablished businessess, like [Human
Benefits](https://www.humanbenefits.com/),
[Kolau](https://www.kolau.com/), [Platform
161](https://platform161.com/), [Lingokids](https://lingokids.com/)
and [Marketer.tech](https://marketer.tech/). You can see a <%=
l_link_to("more detailed CV here", "/other/jes-cv-it")%>.

I have centered my work on the ecosystem around **Ruby on Rails**,
including **PostgreSQL**, **MySQL**, Sidekiq, Redis and related
serverside technologies, adding complex, client-side JavaScript and
TypeScript logic (specially with **Angular**) and some Big Data icing,
mainly with **Google Big Query**.

In addition, I've made some inroads in <%= l_link_to("Open Source",
"/open_source") %> projects, like
[TermuxRubyApi](https://github.com/josepegea/termux_ruby_api), a
Ruby gem designed to interface with Android through the amazing
[Termux](https://termux.com/) project or
[TkComponent](https://github.com/josepegea/tk_component) and
[TkInspect](https://github.com/josepegea/tk_inspect), some gems to
create desktop GUIs in Ruby.

You can see some of my <%= l_link_to("Presentations",
"/about/presentations") %> about this topics.

## A history of entrepreneurship

Between 2005 and 2015 I was involved in launching, running and growing
[Evadium](http://www.evadium.com), an online travel agency specialized
in short trips around Spain combined with activities and experiences
designed to enjoy the local attractions.

Apart from being involved in actually running the business, I spent a
good time building the whole website and booking engine with Ruby on
Rails. That gave me quite a grasp about the ins and outs of building
and deploying real world, money-making web applications, with limited
resources.


## And a rich experience before the web

All this web experience notwithstanding, the truth is that I cut my
teeth in software development long before the Internet became
mainstream.

Having worked both as a developer and a consultant, the number of
technologies I've got to deal with is too long to list here and also
would make me feel somewhat old (suffice to say that 8 bit computers
and Z80 assembly would make it into that list).

Anyway, I'm specially keen of the years I spent using
[NeXT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NeXT) computers and NeXTstep
developer tools, around the 90s, when Objective-C was seldom known and
seemed like a dead-end career direction. Go and [see for
yourself](http://markmail.org/message/cvov2pbnnirinp23). I still have
my old [NeXTstation Color](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NeXTstation)
in its original packaging, although it hasn't been powered on for some
years...

## Always with a pragmatic approach

As much as I enjoy coding for its own sake, along these years I've
acquired an increasingly pragmatic vision about the field, having
lived through a number of the tidal waves that periodically shake this
industry, just to re-invent the wheel in newer and fancier colors.

As a consequence, nowadays I always try to apply a discerning eye when
choosing and deploying technology, both for my own projects and for
others'. Maybe the final product doesn't end up being as cutting edge
as it could have been, but it usually turns up to be more effective
and efficient.

## Let's talk IT

Do you want to discuss a new project, or share your experiences?

<%= l_link_to("Contact me", "/about/contact")%> and let's talk about
IT.
